.TH COHERENCE 1 "March 2026" "1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
coherence \- Coherence Chat Exporter: Export Claude/ChatGPT conversations to Markdown
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B coherence
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.br
.B coherence
(starts interactive mode)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B coherence
is a CLI tool with a TUI (Text User Interface) for exporting and organising Claude and ChatGPT conversations into readable Markdown files. It supports processing individual JSON files, directories of files, or ZIP archives.

GitHub releases include standalone Bun-compiled executables for supported Linux, macOS, and Windows targets, plus SHA-256 checksum files.

If no command is specified, \fBcoherence\fR launches in \fBInteractive Mode\fR, allowing users to browse, search, and select conversations for export using a terminal interface.
.SH INTERACTIVE MODE
When launched without arguments, \fBcoherence\fR provides a TUI for easy navigation.
.SS Navigation
The interface is designed with keyboard-centric navigation in mind, supporting both arrow keys and Vim-style bindings.
.TP
.B Up / k
Move selection up.
.TP
.B Down / j
Move selection down.
.TP
.B Enter / Right / l
Select an item or enter a directory.
.TP
.B Backspace / Left / h
Go back to the previous view or parent directory.
.TP
.B c
Change data source (return to File Browser).
.TP
.B /
Search conversations (in lists).
.SS Behaviour
The interface uses an alternate screen buffer to avoid cluttering your terminal history. Upon exit, the terminal state is restored. The TUI features a comprehensive dashboard for viewing conversation statistics and managing exports.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B export
Export conversations directly from the command line without entering the TUI.
.TP
.B completion
Generate a shell completion script for Bash, Zsh, or Fish.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available for the \fBexport\fR command:
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-provider " \fItype\fR"
Specify the provider type. Valid values are \fBclaude\fR or \fBchatgpt\fR. This is required.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-input " \fIpath\fR"
Path to the input file, directory, or ZIP archive containing the conversations. This is required.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " \fIpath\fR"
Directory where the exported Markdown files will be saved. Defaults to \fB./output\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-tag
Enable AI tagging. This attempts to classify conversations using a local AI model. Note that this may require significant system resources.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-tag
Disable AI tagging explicitly, overriding configuration defaults.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help information.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Interactive Mode
Simply run the command to start the TUI:
.PP
.nf
$ coherence
.fi
.SS Exporting Claude Conversations
Export conversations from a ZIP file to a specific directory:
.PP
.nf
$ coherence export \-\-provider claude \-\-input ./claude_export.zip \-\-output ./my_notes
.fi
.SS Exporting ChatGPT Conversations with Tagging
Export from a JSON file and enable AI tagging:
.PP
.nf
$ coherence export \-p chatgpt \-i conversations.json \-\-tag
.fi
.SS Generating Shell Completion
Generate and source a completion script for Zsh:
.PP
.nf
$ coherence completion zsh > _coherence
$ source _coherence
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/coherence/config.json
User configuration file (path may vary based on XDG_CONFIG_HOME).
.TP
.B ~/.local/share/coherence/
Data storage for the application.
.SH DISTRIBUTION
.TP
.B Standalone binaries
Release assets include platform-specific standalone executables named like
.B coherence-vX.Y.Z-linux-x64
(or
.B .exe
on Windows), alongside matching
.B .sha256
checksum files.
.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs or issues to the GitHub repository issue tracker.
.SH AUTHOR
Maintained by the Coherence Chat Exporter team.
